DOCS-715: servo models and configuration refactor (#1148)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/components/servo/pi.md

---
title: "Configure a pi Servo"
linkTitle: "pi"
weight: 90
type: "docs"
description: "Configure a pi servo."
tags: ["servo", "components"]
icon: "img/components/servo.png"
# SME: Rand
---

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}

Unlike other servo models, `pi` servos are implemented as part of the [`pi` board component](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/blob/main/components/board/pi/impl/servo.go).

{{% /alert %}}

Configure a `pi` servo to integrate a hobby servo controlled by general-purpose input/output (GPIO) pins on a [Raspberry Pi board](/components/board/pi) into your robot:

{{< tabs name="Configure a pi Servo" >}}
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

Navigate to the **config** tab of your robot's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click on the **Components** subtab and navigate to the **Create component** menu.
Enter a name for your servo, select the type `servo`, and select the `pi` model.

Click **Create component**:

![An example configuration for a pi servo in the Viam app Config Builder.](../img/pi-servo-ui-config.png)

> Edit and fill in the `"attributes"` JSON to align with your `board` `name` and GPIO wiring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit and fill in the attributes as applicable.
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
    "components": [
        {
            "name": "<your-servo-name>",
            "type": "servo",
            "model": "pi",
            "attributes": {
                "pin": "<your-pin-number>",
                "board": "<your-board-name>"
            }

>         }, ... <insert your board component config>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        },
        ... // insert your board component config
```

    }
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Example" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "components": [

>     {
>         "name": "your-servo-name",
>         "type": "servo",
>         "model": "pi",
>         "attributes": {
>             "pin": "16",
>             "board": "your-board-name"
>         }
>     }, 
>     {
>         "name": "your-board-name",
>         "type": "board",
>         "model": "pi"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {
        "name": "local",
        "type": "board",
        "model": "pi"
    }, 
    {
        "name": "my_servo",
        "type": "servo",
        "model": "pi",
        "attributes": {
            "pin": "16",
            "board": "local"
        }
```

Author: @npentrel @JessamyT Same here as above-- Maybe board first and "my_board" instead of "local" could be a good in-between for this template?
